in physics the concepts of work and
power help us understand and explain
lots of things in our universe let's
start with work positive work is the
energy we put into a system and negative
work is energy that's transferred out
think of positive work as money being
added to your bank account and negative
work as money taken out in the metric
system work and energy are measured in
joules as an example let's take a
beautiful old mechanical grandfather
clock we transfer energy into the clock
when we turn the crank to raise the
heavy metal cylinders inside the clock
when we do this we're doing positive
work adding energy to the clock and that
energy is stored as gravitational
potential energy we can calculate the
amount of work done by multiplying the
force we apply times the distance over
which we apply the force to raise the
metal cylinders we need to apply a force
equal to their weight that is equal to
the force of gravity pulling downward on
the cylinders these cylinders weigh 300
Newton's which is pretty heavy about as
much as the small child and if we lift
them 1/2 meter then we do 300 Newton's
times 1/2 meter or 150 joules of work
power is the rate at which energy is
transferred when we say rate we mean the
amount of energy transferred per unit of
time in the metric system power is
measured in joules per second or watts
the term watt goes back to James Watt
who came up with the concept of
horsepower to measure the amount of
power produced by a typical workhorse
James Watt was a producer of industrial
steam engines and he wanted his
potential customers to be able to make
comparisons between his steam engines
and a familiar quantity the power they
could get from a working horse this was
such a useful idea that the metric
system unit for power the watt is named
after James Watt following in James
Watts footsteps let's compare the amount
of power it takes to run this
grandfather clock to the power we need
to run a bright 100 watt light bulb you
can measure the power a person uses
to wind the clock by dividing the amount
of work they did by the time it took
them to do it if it takes one minute or
60 seconds to lift the weights then they
are doing 150 joules divided by 60
seconds or 2.5 joules per second of work
they're adding energy to the clock at a
rate of 2.5 watts you'd need about 40
times as much to run a bright hundred
watt light bulb before we let the clock
run the energy is stored as
gravitational potential energy of the
cylinders it's like your bank account
when you have just deposited money but
if we let the clock run the cylinders
slowly move downward energy is leaving
the clock in fact when the cylinders get
to the bottom all the energy that we put
in will have left so how much power does
the clock use that is how many joules of
energy per second leave the clock if it
takes five days for the cylinders to
return to their original position we can
figure this out because we already know
how much work we did when we lifted the
cylinders 150 joules but this time it
took five days rather than a minute five
days is five times 24 times 60 times 60
again or 432 thousand seconds so we
divide the work done by the time and
find the answer of about point zero zero
zero three five joules per second or
about 0.35 milli watts that's a tiny
amount of power this clock uses so
little power that you could run almost
300,000 clocks using the same power it
takes to run one 100 watt bulb that's
right you could run a clock in every
house in a medium-sized city with that
much power that's a pretty amazing
conclusion and it took knowledge of work
and power to figure it out
you